hi everybody
welcome back to the real life kitchen my
name is Mike Ben injure owner operator
of Chef Mike dossier today we're making
one of my favorites Caesar salad I'm
just going to start off here like with
all good things start off with garlic
this is a micro planer you haven't got
one of these Plains garlic and chocolate
for than anything in the world start off
one clove if you like more add more like
less add less anchovy paste now anchovy
face is 2 layer of salt it's a layer of
flavor not everybody likes it but you
know what it adds something to it with
you don't have it you'll notice it's
missing that's not good lemon juice you
can use lime juice even use vinegar I
prefer lemon juice watch the seeds
though the seeds aren't very nice
egg yolks egg yolks are better than egg
whites or whole egg dressings I prefer
yolks they're richer they're also safer
so I have two in there you only want to
have one that's up to you
like a little more richness we're going
to have to mustard you serve you like
this happens to be a grainy Dijon if you
want to use a super hot one that's up to
you
if you want to use a mild one that's up
to you as well again it's all of a
preference issue I put a teaspoon there
now you mix it up now you'll notice here
I have nothing in here that is a
preservative I have nothing in here
that's not the highest of quality
ingredients when you get stuff in
bottles that isn't always the case
Parmesan cheese there's only one cheese
for this parmigiano-reggiano you can
tell Reggiano because it has the red
general label on the grind right in the
side there it's very expensive it's
about $45 a kilo but that's what it
costs and you only use a little that's
probably a key of maybe a teaspoon a
tablespoon and a half maybe I don't know
85 cents worth for the entire brick
that's there it's worth using the very
very best of ingredients so let's recap
we have cheese we have eggs
we've garlic now we're going to add some
pepper fresh cracked is always the best
we're gonna add some sea salt we had
them we've added mustard now we add some
olive oil and again spend the money and
buy the good stuff extra virgin is worth
it
and you just slowly drizzle it in
because what you're doing the fat that's
in the egg yolks is mixing up with the
oil and you're creating what's called an
emulsion she's gonna blend this through
you're gonna just go very very gently
don't want to rush this whole thing
though from start to finish takes about
oh four or five minutes that's a boat on
now there's my dress give it a taste
test
salty sweet fragrant I think into the
little more lemon pepper that's just me
I think it needs a little more garlic
but again nice just me I like lots of
garlic in mine
put that in there at the micro planer
Micra planers are about 30 bucks
available at Zaire's
14 oz rookie and super stores even
dollars I think azzam they're fantastic
tools chocolate cheese garlic nutmeg
fantastic so there's our dressing it's
creamy and rich I'm going to take half
of it out because one of the problems
you have when you go to restaurants as
they put in too much dressing so I'm
going to add some lettuce
so you can add your romaine now I want
obsess about you know having every
single piece exactly the same size it's
important though that it's washed and
properly dried wedding water in there
it's gonna water down your dressing and
water doesn't taste as good as dressing
this you know so cover this all up when
you go to restaurants what they do is
they add too much dressing I want to
have the flavor of the garlic I want to
taste the flavor of the lettuce that's
why I'm mixing it up like this I can add
more later you can always add more
dressing you can always add more lettuce
it's hard to take it out it doesn't work
the same way that's why I'm always very
cautious about adding too much dressing
in a hurry so here's your salad this
will keep for Oh the dressing is good
for a day or two that's about although
there's no preservatives in it and raw
egg yolks you know you always want to be
cautious of those even though the eggs
in Canada are the very very highest of
quality I'm always very cautious so I
would take this take our lovely dress
park that ode from scratch seven great
ingredients available very easily
ingredients everywhere for every forty
knows every Loblaws every Sylvie's every
store in the area we'll always have all
the things you need to make this Caesar
salad I think the flavors are incredible
I always finish this off with some fresh
parmigiano-reggiano in fact I always
lots of parmigiano-reggiano just like
that let go that comes off like
microplane racks just best ever
a couple twists of fresh cracked pepper
and there you go ladies and gentlemen
start to finish five six seven minutes
available everywhere inexpensive quality
ingredients quality flavors my name is
Mike Vantage ER owner of chef Mike that
CA and a freaking friend of the real
life kitchens thank you very much